# Ansible Collection - puppeteers.backup

This Ansible Collection contains code for managing backup configurations.

# Roles

## git_repo_backup

This Ansible role configures
[git-repo-backup](https://github.com/Puppet-Finland/git-repo-backup) tool. It
can be used to back up arbitrary Git repositories via SSH. Right now Bitbucket
and GitHub are explicitly supported by having their SSH host keys in the role
defaults. This role creates a separate user for the backup job and runs it in
a Podman container. The role has been tested on Rocky Linux 9.

Several parameters are required to use this role:

```
puppeteers_backup_git_repo_backup_config:
  org1:
    repos:
      - "repo1"
      - "repo2"
    ssh_key: "my_first_key"
  org2:
    repos:
      - "repo3"
      - "repo4"
    ssh_key: "my_second_key"

puppeteers_backup_git_repo_backup_script_repo: 'https://github.com/Puppet-Finland/git-repo-backup.git'
puppeteers_backup_git_repo_backup_ssh_keys:
    my_first_key: <a SSH private key to use to back up Git repositories for org1>
    my_other_key: <a SSH private key to use to back up Git repositories for org2>
```

In most case all the other parameters can be left at their defaults values (see
[roles/git_repo_backup/defaults/main.yml](roles/git_repo_backup/defaults/main.yml)).

## rsnapshot_allow

This role adds an SSH authorized key to allow rsnapshot server to SSH in to its
target nodes. By default the key is installed for the root user. To reduce the
security impact you must define *puppeteers_backup_rsnapshot_allow_host*, which
defines the IP from which rsnapshot server connects from. Moreover, you may
install the to some other, less privileged user by setting
*puppeteers_backup_rsnapshot_allow_user*.

In general you only define two variables:

* puppeteers_backup_rsnapshot_allow_host (e.g. *10.251.99.4*)
* puppeteers_backup_rsnapshot_allow_key (public SSH key, e.g. ssh-ed25519 AAAA...)

For details see
[roles/rsnapshot_allow/defaults/main.yml](roles/rsnapshot_allow/defaults/main.yml).

## rsnapshot_marker

This is a simple role that updates a file on the host. That file, by default
/etc/.rsnapshot-marker is supposed to get copied by rsnapshot. Then, at the
rsnapshot server end, the age of all the various backed up marker files can be
used to determine if any rsnapshot backups have failed, e.g. by Prometheus
Textfile Collector. See
[roles/rsnapshot_marker/defaults/main.yml](roles/rsnapshot_marker/defaults/main.yml)
for details about the parameters.

## rsnapshot_prometheus_metrics

This role generates Prometheus metrics using a script and a cronjob from
rsnapshot backups. It works by tracking the age of marker files generated by
the *rsnapshot_marker* role. Normally you don't need to define any parameters, but the role can be tweaked quite a bit. See
[roles/rsnapshot_prometheus_metrics/defaults/main.yml](roles/rsnapshot_prometheus_metrics/defaults/main.yml)
for details.

## vbotka_rsnapshot_misc

Designed to be used after [vbotka.rsnapshot](https://github.com/Puppet-Finland/ansible-rsnapshot.git):

* Links /usr/local/etc/rsnapshot.conf to /etc/rsnapshot.conf
* Adds rsnapshot cronjobs (fixed schedule for now)
